Revolution Tournament Reports

<b>GP Caersol</b>

The field was wide open going into the first tournament of Solastere season. 23 players brought a variety of aggro, midrange, combo, and control, and no one archetype dominated the field.

The headliner card for aggro was Darksun Migrant. The 1-mana double strike creature, backed up with Face of Animosity to give it +3 power and trample, gave red-based aggro decks their most explosive starts since the days of Efimia. CovetedPeacock took her graveyard-tinted version of the deck to an undefeated performance in the swiss, ending at third.

The best deck of last standard season, Envoy of the Fallen aristocrats, survived basically unchanged into this season. Two players brought the card, with HSquid being the only one to find Lightless Conquest, which turns every artifact the deck generates into a sacrifice trigger. A combination of bad luck and opponents with stocked sideboards stopped his run at fifth.

The best performing card of the tournament was something that looked much fairer: Nightfall is a new powerful sweeper from Solastere, and control decks in a variety of color combinations found great success combining it with Twilight Ambush to keep Darksun Migrant in check. The decks differed mainly in their approch to card advantage, with Scribbl on a variety of Rakdos enchantments, battles, and planeswalkers, Nix on mono-black discard and draw twos, and a couple of Dimir and Esper decks on blue card draw, including Mistwrit Archivist, which survives Nightfall thanks to its 5 toughness.

The other two decks in top cut were Kumrac, up to his usual BG midrange shenanigans, and yours truly, on a control deck that traded Nightfall for Deafening Clarion and the difficult-to-disrupt win condition of Path of Scales.

The finals came down to Nix, playing for their second GP win in a row, facing yours truly, playing for my fifth GP win of the worlds season. Your hero fought bravely, but the amount of discard in Nix's deck, main and board, was too much to overcome, and a subtle misplay game 3 sealed my fate. Congrats to Nix for their back-to-back victories; they've proved themselves a force to be reckoned with in REV.

AllWhoWander got the world invite, from fourth.

Elo updates
1 (=): drchipmunk | 1698 (+1)
2 (=): philippe saner | 1668 (=)
3 (+1): covetedpeacock | 1625 (+14)
4 (-1): provocative | 1612 (-20)
5 (=): lihlosaur | 1608 (-3)
6 (+5): allwhowander | 1607 (+34)
7 (+11): 7nix | 1603 (+55)
8 (-2): anarchist00 | 1600 (=)
9 (-2): purplemurasaki | 1580 (=)
10 (-2): drakexiv | 1576 (=)

<b>GP Kaina City</b>

Going into the second GP of Solastere season, all eyes were on control. With the best aggro tool (Darksun Migrant) and the best midrange tool (Foes Unfed) hit hard going into this month, the question was: do you join control, and build to beat the mirror, or try to go under them?

On the side of those trying to beat control, there were many approaches. On the aggro side, PTM made top cut on a slightly bigger mono red deck packing 3- and 4-drops and lots of card advantage to keep the game rolling through the sweepers. A few players brought token decks, hoping to avoid the widely played Eltanaan, and among them CatInTree made it all the way to finals.

Various flavours of green midrange packing beefy card-advantage threats hoped to slog through the control matchups. Golgari and Jund variants made it decently far, but it was Laurel on the value combination of Halo Tracer and Survivors of the New World that was able to crack top cut for the forces of midrange.

On the side of the joiners, there were two main paths. One was to lean into a flash angle, playing the powerful Simic flash payoffs of SOL, possibly also splashing into white or black. Some of these decks played more creatures and leaned more tempo, but the one with the best record was ItaiUukl on a strictly value setup.

The other path were the blue red control decks packing the tap-out haymakers of Path of Scales and Iviana. Two such decks, both going into white as their third color, made top cut. Yours truly ran back Jeskai battle control from last month, but it was Kayiu102, combining Path of Scales and Iviana for a control deck of maximum late game power, who claimed the tournament win and the worlds invite.

Elo update
1 (=): drchipmunk | 1706 (+8)
2 (=): philippe saner | 1668 (=)
3 (+8): kayiu102 | 1627 (+53)
4 (=): provocative | 1612 (=)
5 (-2): covetedpeacock | 1606 (-19)
6 (-1): lihlosaur | 1600 (-8)
7 (+1): anarchist00 | 1600 (=)
8 (-2): allwhowander | 1598 (-9)
9 (=): purplemurasaki | 1580 (=)
10 (-3): 7nix | 1579 (-24)

<b>GP Neo Stehlia</b>

The field was wide open going into the last standard GP of Cybaros' tenure and the last chance to earn a spot in worlds 2026. Those already qualified were bringing their best brews to get prepared; those not qualified were putting their best last chance. 

The most popular deck of the tournament was dragon control. The most common build, put together by Kayiu, was a lean Jeskai control list playing the format's best answers. Three players - Kayiu himself, CovetedPeacock, and Epid - brought nearly the same list, and SilverParabellum had a similar Grixis build. These four players would end up being matched into each other, resulting in a lot of grindy control mirrors. Kayiu and Peacock both made top cut, with Peacock winning a marathon four mirror matches en route to finals.

Midrange was varied and popular: BG, RW, RB, and Naya builds all put in their best, with two unusual brews cracking into top 8. Tremor was on another Kayiu-built deck, using Qaraz Monument to assemble a wide variety of artifact and enchantment engines. Itaiuukl was on a BR midrange deck that used Leyshard and Shigane Manor Burns to ramp into 4-mana haymakers.

Although the patch at the top of this month featured the CCR buffs, their impact ended being fairly tame. The most impactful buff of the month was the change to Clash at Mistwrit Vale from a marginal control piece to prowess all-star. Yours truly and newcomer to the format cftsoc3 both brought the Battle into top cut, where cftsoc3 beat out Itai in a quartfinals match that stamped their ticket to worlds 2026.

If Jeskai control was the top deck by standings, the most feared deck in the field was Solidarity in the hands of platypeople. Capable of frequent turn 3 kills and reliable turn 4 kills, this aggro deck demanded early interaction to keep in check. It's sure that our worlds competitors will have this deck in mind going into next month. Platy dropped at third to a well-prepared cftsoc3.

The finals came down to CovetedPeacock vs. cftsoc3. cftsoc3 - a player with real life pro tour experience - navigated the matchup beautifully, including by using the prowess granted by Clash at Mistwrit Vale to grow their tokens out of Deafening Clarion range. They took home the win, and certainly all eyes will be on them going into worlds.

Elo update
1 (=): drchipmunk | 1692 (-15)
2 (=): philippe saner | 1669 (=)
3 (=): kayiu102 | 1636 (+9)
4 (+1): covetedpeacock | 1635 (+28)
5 (-1): provocative | 1602 (-10)
6 (=): lihlosaur | 1601 (=)
7 (+1): anarchist00 | 1595 (=)
8 (-1): allwhowander | 1591 (-8)
9 (=): purplemurasaki | 1580 (=)
10 (=): 7nix | 1579 (=)

<b>GP Silver Glade</b>

While Worlds 2026 raged, in the background the first invite for Worlds 2027 was being seized. Revolution's first Archaeologist GP allowed players to register any deck from REV history. There's a major difference between this format and historical standard in canon Magic - REV has nerfs, not bans, so the best decks of yesteryear are mostly not playable as they were. There were two major approaches - either play a deck of the current rotation or close enough that the nerf bat has yet spared, or play an old, familiar deck that still mostly survives.

Of the oldies, RW aggro, Naya Hydra toolbox, UR flashback, RW experience, and bant counters all came out of the vault for a last hurrah, but the only old deck to make the top tables was Rickrister's old reliable 4c Consonance. Ricky may have more reps with consonance than anyone else in the format with a single deck, and that experience overcame what slight dust the strategy has accumulated over the years.

There was one more interesting wrinkle in the format's historical accuracy - the buff patches, which allowed certain buffed cards to cross paths with cards that rotated before they were buffed. The most relevant was Envoy of the Fallen getting access to Eidolon of Empty Thoughts, giving aristocrats access to the full 12 creatures that die into treasures. Two players brought this strategy (and another an older crats list), with Lih getting into top cut.
 
On the no-nonsense side of the scale, all the biggest boogeymen of SOL-era standard with in full force. Jeskai control, solidarity, and jund midrange went for their shot, but it was tremor's finely tuned BG midrange (sans Zukar but still powerful) and cftsoc3's UR prowess featuring Clash at Mistwrit Vale that got there. The finals came down the cftsoc3 vs. Rickyrister, and the new hotness beat the old classics. cftsoc3 claimed back-to-back GPs and the Worlds 2027 invite.

Elo update
1 (+1): philippe saner | 1669 (=)
2 (-1): drchipmunk | 1669 (-23)
3 (+1): covetedpeacock | 1635 (=)
4 (-1): kayiu102 | 1610 (-26)
5 (=): provocative | 1602 (=)
6 (=): lihlosaur | 1598 (-3)
7 (+8): cftsoc3 | 1597 (+33)
8 (-1): anarchist00 | 1595 (=)
9 (-1): allwhowander | 1592 (+1)
10 (-1): purplemurasaki | 1580 (=)

<b>Worlds 2026</b>
The 2026 Worlds qualifier season was a time of passing eras. Yours truly, Lih, Nix, and cftsoc3 all took turns standing astride the format, and all were making the most of their cunning going into the year's biggest tournament.

But when the decklists were revealed, another story quickly took over. Three players had ingeniously found, built around, and kept secret a nasty combo of Zukar and Temple fo Origins, allowing them to remove their opponent's ability to produce colored mana as early as turn 3. HSquid and CatInTree had a RB control shell, and tremor a BG midrange shell, for the combo. 

Outside of those three, the field was diverse. PTM (according to style) and kumrac (very much not according to style) brought low-curve red aggro decks. PTM brought Flaw in the System as a read on the format's greedy manabases and got as far as 5th; both he and kumrac (7th) fell to a RW midrange deck with a ton of lifegain.

That RW midrange deck was piloted by AllWhoWander, who brought the massive life gain of Cleansing Starfire all the way to third place, taking out yours truly on a different RW midrange deck built around Qaraz Monument (giving me fourth). After Zukar, the card of the tournament was Offset Daemon, putting in excellent work across midrange and control decks; AllWhoWander found the excellent sideboard option of Oberys as an ecellent meta call.

It was a bad tournament for players trying to make fair creature-based midrange happen; Stasis on Bant midrange and Provocative on Naya tokens both went 0-2, falling to various aggro decks and decks packing the format's excellent 3- and 4-mana sweepers.

The most common single archetype in the room was UR prowess, with three players on some variant of the strategy. Despite the awesome power of Clash at Mistwrit Vale, the field was well-prepared, and cftsoc3 got the furthest of them at 9th.

The biggest deck of the SOL season overall was Jeskai control in its many guises; Kayiu brought the deck, barely tweaked from its excellent last-month performance, to a respectable 5th, falling to yours truly. The plentiful sweepers and removal had a tough time against the planeswalker, land, and enchantment-centric threats on offer.

Two players brought ramp decks built around the previously little-explored Last Wish. Of them, Lih had the better build, playing blue to gain access to Black Dawn Historian for a combo finish. Lih had a clean record into winners finals, was dropped to losers finals, where they beat AllWhoWander for the revenge shot in grands.

Of the Sukar players, the two RB control lists had little luck, but tremor, who qualified from fourth-place in TWI league season, had the best deck in the field. With comprehensive matchup testing, they dropped not a single game all the way to grand finals, where they defeated Lih to claim the ultimate dark horse victory.

Standings:
1st: tremor
2nd: Lihlosaur
3rd: AllWhoWander
4th: DrChipmunk
5th: kayiu102
5th: PTM
7th: kumrac
7th: HSquid

<b>GP Thraben</b>
Revolution's second-ever double rotation, along with a large slew of post-worlds nerfs, made the format wide open going into May 2026. Kayiu, tremor, and cftsoc3 all qualified for worlds 2027 last month, but otherwise the field was wide open for players looking to stake their claim. 

In the busy league jostling leading up to the GP, aggro was the deck to fear. All-creature muster builds featuring the four 1-mana muster creatures from VLR put up the fastest starts. A more straightforward red deck playing the format's best cards managed to get kumrac two 5-0 runs. Tokens decks, powered by Westvale Cult Induction as a +2/+2 anthem, were also strong. However, the GP format was well-prepared for the aggro menace. No one even brought muster, and the only aggro deck to make the top cut was CatInTree's Naya tokens, which had the resilience of its token-making and buffing enchantments to survive the highly interactive format and make it to 5th.

The Zukar and Last Wish combos of Worlds were nerfed out of existence, but the Lifehacker - Pact Beyond Death interaction which, provided you have two mana enough to kill hacker and avoid decking yourself, can draw 30ish cards and gain 60ish life, went unchanged. Tremor, our worlds 2026 champion, led the midrange charge with an Abzan deck featuring both that combo and the Feasting Predator - Generous Farmer combo backed up by the best midrange threats and interaction, getting just into top cut at 9th.

REV is awash in powerful artifact and enchantment engines right now. While a few players experimented with the artifact tokens build involving new token doubler Harvesttide Procession, it was AllWhoWander, running back their worlds RW counters deck, who made top cut. The immense life gain of Cleansing Starfire put them ahead of the aggro field. 

The best UR prowess card, Clash at Mistwrit Vale, was nerfed going into this month, but UR spells in various forms was alive and kicking. There were pure prowess builds, UR terrors builds using the new payoffs Ominous Frogs and Cordelia's Ripper, and CovetedPeacock's unique take built around overlooked SOL card Psionic Sage. Ricky on the terrors build and Peacock both managed to get top cut out of the big pool.

But the breakout package of the new sets was undoubtedly the Simic Value cards. The Setral Shaper, Ery, In Tune, Teeming Secrets, Shape the Pattern, Voice of the Old Grove, and Umber Grovetender in various combinations proved a unimpeachable strategy. Of the four players that put both Islands and Forests in their deck, all four made top cut. Yours Truly had the most straightforward version - a Druids deck with no interaction, just endless value and consistency. Lih had a less all-in version that managed to fit in blue countermagic instead of quite as much ramp. Kayiu102 and cftsoc3 both played control decks that splashed a third color - Kayiu white for new 4 mana wrath Beyond Comprehension and the fog Cereus Argosa and cftsoc black for better removal like Hang and Twilight Ambush. They met in the finals in a grueling control mirror. cftsoc3 took the first game off of mana screw. In the second game they pulled ahead in card advantage but were unable to stop an Astraling from sticking, but a Warden of Tremors in blocking mode stopped the bleeding, leading to their third consecutive GP win!

CovetedPeacock got the worlds invite, from third.

Elo update (note that there was a change to the Elo calculations in this GP. Starting now, players who did not play for three consecutive GPs would have their Elo gradually decay. This change was applied retroactively)
1 (=): drchipmunk | 1658 (-10)
2 (+3): cftsoc3 | 1650 (+53)
3 (-1): covetedpeacock | 1650 (+21)
4 (+4): kayiu102 | 1627 (+41)
5 (+1): lihlosaur | 1600 (+4)
6 (+1): allwhowander | 1596 (+6)
7 (-3): philippe saner | 1595 (-5)
8 (+2): rickyrister | 1587 (+24)
9 (-6): provocative | 1584 (-16)
10 (-1): 7nix | 1573 (-4)