Weft Trace 04: The Celebrity Soldier

The sunset was off in Cloudsite. Whenever Toki had visited Cloudsite before, the sculpted clouds that swirled over the city were illuminated in shifting pastel pinks and purples. Now the sky was a uniform dark blue and the clouds were just grey bulbous shapes. She was approaching the city from above, hoversuit gently whirring as it guided her descent. She pierced a cloud. There was no one up here, no wispy-formed users dancing in the high mist. She revved up the hoversuit's two hip-jets. They vectored out and downward and slowed her fall.

She landed on a rooftop, with the rest of her squad close behind. Sameron, by attire more of a bureaucrat than a soldier, palmed the hilt of his psiblade. Kina and Klint exchanged furtive glances. Below the roofs, the streets of Cloudsite were packed. The loss of the sunset had not dimmed the city's eternal festival; long fish-like daemons danced above the streets and the scent of spice wafted from streetside stalls. 

Toki booted up her stream. When the downlink was still online, this was a near-instantaneous process, but these days it warmed up slowly. Threads of thought flowed into her mind, each a fan establishing a connection. The first few she greeted - How's the play? How are things in the Archive? - but soon the threads became a blended stream of sensation. Shouted words broke her concentration. 

"Sameron? Haven't seen you in a century at least! What brings you here?" Someone on the street below recognized her squadmate and had climbed onto a dumpling stall to wave. Sameron nearly responded, but Toki cut him off.

"Heyo! We're with Catch - it's a new error-fighting-squad - and we're here on a report of an error coming this way." Her fans' impressions filtered in, compelling her to add, "So long as you keep your head on straight, there's nothing to worry about. We're undefeated!"
 
Toki's spiel was interrupted by Klint making a silencing gesture. 

"Got eyes on it," he said. He was looking through the scope of a tripod-mounted contraption he and Kina has set up on the roof, all toyetic pastel-colored tubes and telescoping arms. Gemi and Nu had been great assets to Catch. Klint backed away from the scope, allowing the device to project a hologram into the space over their heads.

The form was humanoid, boyish, made of swarming shapes and wreathed in eye-watering shadow. It didn't so much walk over the landscape as glide, a moving silhouette visible by its intersection with the world's geometry. Around it the landscape of the Buffer was pulled up and apart in a tornado of forms. 

It was still just over the horizon, but heading directly towards Cloudsite.

Sameron gave a signal and Toki disengaged from the circle of fans that had formed around her. Catch took off in formation. 

Toki, coasting at the formation's rear, let her stream wash over her. Hoversuit aerobatics were still new to her, but luckily she had fans in the Grip. She let their expertise overtake her reflexes. Push the throttle until you feel like the wind is going to flip you over backwards - then push it a little further. Even at maximum velocity, they were going to meet the error halfway. 

Cloudsite was going to get a light show. 

Sameron transmitted a combat plan to the group. It was an old, secure, handshaked connection, blunt and rough over Toki's faster-than-thought stream. Positions marked with blue stars to drop pointers, guiding the error off its path and into a predictable loop. Red stars for battle stations, going for a strike on its third lap. Sameron's standard.

Kina pulled up and threw the first pointer. It started from her trajectory and flew ballistic, a gentle lob coming down on a wood-slat bridge over a brook. A bubble of greyed-out space spawned around it - the brook froze in its banks, with water splattering against the upstream side. 

Errors are attracted to virtuality. The pause repels them - or at least encourages them to look elsewhere.

More pointers followed, drawing a gentle curve, suggesting the error to turn gently right and avoid the greyed-out space on its left. As Catch closed in and set up more of the wall the curve became sharper, turning around until it met itself, trapping the error in a circular space. 

It glided around its kilometer-wide enclosure like a pacing dog. The space - a quaint farmstead with rows of raspberry bushes - was torn up in its overlapping tracks. 

Catch took positions for ambush. It would stay contained for a limited time before it reduced this space to nothing and left in search of more to destroy. They would give it a few laps to learn its pattern. One time around, two, ...

Toki took her place opposite Cloudsite. It seemed she would be in front of the error when the moment came. As she hovered she felt an image of herself come in, displayed to her by collective vote. It showed her hovering, psiblade in hand, screwed-up expression on her face. She must have fans in Cloudsite. Made sense. She had fans everywhere.

The error passed by her on the other side of the pointer barrier on its second lap. She could see it closer now. She could count the black, disordered shapes, still within its moving form. She could see the barrier of its body, wavering slightly like a decaying oscillation in reverse as it turned towards Kina. She raised her psiblade and let combat-readiness stream into her. 

It was wavering a lot more than it had seemed on the hologram. A fan caught something and other fans amplified it to her attention. When it was at its smallest a black shape appeared above Kina. As its oscillations increased, that shape - when it appeared - grew larger. Someone's rough calculations leapt up at her. Soon, it would - 

"Kina! Watch out!" Toki sent out the message over the secure connection. Kina turned, received, reacted. It was too late.

The error blinked down to nothing within the pointer circle and blinked back to full size on top of Kina. It didn't attack her. The space where she was simply became part of it. 

Even over Catch's buffered connection Toki could feel the lurching tragedy.

"Hell was that!" said Klint.

"It teleported out," said Toki.

"I can see that," said Sameron, already gaining altitude. "We need to trap it again."

Toki surfaced from a torrent of information, Archival research and Grip word-of-mouth flowing into her.

"I don't think this one is trappable."

Klint was already chasing the error down. He was coming in low, hoversuit blaring, psiblade held rigid in front of him like a lance. At the moment of impact the error blipped out again.

<hr>

Foxtrot7 was missing a gig, and he didn't care. He and his band were meant to be in Cloudsite playing Elma's grill tonight. Elma's was a good venue; reliable crowds, quality pre-Weft atmosphere. It had been a solid jazz hub for the last 3500 years at least.

But Elma's would be here tomorrow. It wasn't just any day you got to watch an Error die. 

He clearly wasn't the only one having that idea. Cloudsite' northern edge had become a tower of impromptu seating. He and his band - Quelizinne, foxy and bulky, leaning on her hexaduple-bass; Rantan, languid and metallic, giving the fight atmospheric drones and pops through their integrated subdermal saxophone - were perched on a platform of brass, hovering in the air of its own volition but part of the tower by proximity.

An axiom floated by, offering peanuts. 

The error was a black smudge on the landscape, distorted by the bubbles of frozen time Catch were using to pen it in. It seemed to be a close fight. The error stumbled around the landscape like a punch-drunk boxer, but vlooped through thin air to escape the net. Catch were scrambling to get after it. The error staggered, vibrated, then vlooped out of existence again.

Some preemptive cheers went up from the spectators.

Suddenly, the air was full of history. Centuries of noise bore down on Foxtrot7. A thousand-year-old marching band crashed into his platform from below and sent him flying. he grabbed onto something which turned out to be a 20-meter ice sculpture of a ferret. Bracing himself against the freezing surface, he could see down into the storm.

The error was a humanoid shape, immovable at the storm's centre. Now that it was in Cloudsite, it was no longer a cloud of dirt and infrastructural shapes but a tornado of misplaced assets. The ice sculpture was at the storm's edge. Foxtrot7 could see storefronts and stages, some with people clinging to them, sucked into the error and crushed. 

Beneath him, in Cloudsite, some tried to repel the error with lightbows and psiblades. More were erecting rough walls of foam and steel. Nothing seemed to be slowing the destruction's advance.

The ice sculpture shuddered. Turning back towards it, Foxtrot7 could see someone on the other side of it. The figure was hanging onto the ice, keeping it in a stable orbit with her hoversuit. Her psiblade was out and down, pointing out features on the error. She was talking to people Foxtrot7 couldn't see. 

"How about the legs? And the one in Archive E - did that stop it? Thanks for the windsim, any ideas on the safest vector in?"

She glanced through the crystalline ferret and gave him a wink and a smile. 

"One more rotation? Probably our best shot. I'll be putting you guys on wing and psiblade instinct."

She launched off of the ice and soared in. Foxtrot tracked her as she went. She mimicked the windstorm, just another piece of debris, until making a sharp turn. Her psiblade flashed. 

Foxtrot7 and several hundred other users fell through the grey Cloudsite sky.

<hr>

Sameron had had a long career of cleaning up messes. Assert was the Stack's division of socionics and conflict resolution. He'd separated squabbling polycules, merged incompatible branches of poetry, even restored the Heap's central scoreboard after a coordinated griefing. 

This was different. Cloudsite was a mangling of fog-strewn assets, so he was managing the cleanup from a nearby hill. He went from user to user, taking on their sensation and spreading what calm he could. He prodded them gently. Who was here with you? Did you see them get out? They responded, not with bombast and conviction like they always did, but numbly. He sent out an order to the Tapestry - they'd need seventeen new entries. Records of life for users lost. And he'd handle one of them - Kina - personally.

Toki was, as usual, surrounded by adoring fans.

Weave squads were dropping in, faceless and precise, walking carefully to avoid tangled lines he couldn't see. They would try to keep the Weft's fabric from unraveling further. The users gave them a wide berth. Sameron didn't bother asking if it was repairable.

Toki finished up her handshakes, gestured for space, and boosted up on her hoverjets. She summoned an iridescent stage beneath her and landed on it with a flourish. 

"Users of Cloudsite!" she shouted. "It's been a terrible day. You deserve a break. But instead you have a responsibility." Her hair glimmered in a personal light source. Even the Weave squads stopped to listen. "Wherever you go, you need to tell the Weft what you saw. You need to tell them how dangerous Errors are. You need to tell them how you fought to protect each other and your town. And most of all you need to tell them that Errors can be beaten!"

A cheer burbled through the crowd, picking up momentum before bubbling over into a collective whoop.

"You need to tell them that Catch, just started, already has fourteen error kills to its name. You need to tell them that Archive Echo is working to trace the errors to their source. You need to tell them that the Weft is alive and united." 

The cheer boiled over into applause. Sameron received a ping over Catch channels from Toki.

"Heyo! You can head back to HQ without me. I got some new fans." 

<hr>

Toki walked through the Spine with ten fresh recruits in tow. Imagecubes snapped as she passed - she shifted her hair to give them a photogenic angle from the right. Word of her stunt had spread fast. The branching hallways of the Spine were less crowded than usual. Vibrant and varied gateways every few meters showcased games and art spaces. Many were still pulsing with enticement but some were shuttered, politely postponed by the crisis. She could feel Foxtrot7 close behind her, soaking up the incidental attention. The other recruits followed in a line, more solemnly.

They took the branches up out of the Buffer and down close to the Grip. Toki could have warped - as a Catch member, she was more than entitled to the bandwidth - but she enjoyed being seen. She stopped at a portal of glimmering glass, layers of translucent colour creating an illusion of depth. 

"Do I get my hoversuit here?" asked Foxtrot7.

"That's Sameron's call," said Toki. "You can ask him later. For now, you should meet the fans"

<hr>

Toki's fanspace was, after the most recent weekly vote, a suave club with elaborate chandeliers, plush seating, and a band of axioms plinking away on a dark stage. Her entrance roused a chorus of congratulatory snapping. A purple panda-altered craned her neck over the back of her seat to greet her.

"Sick stunt there, Toki."

Toki shimmered her outfit, going from the aerodynamic hoversuit to something golden and flowing. "Thanks! I'm assuming that was a J8ro special?"

A man with silver racing lines traced over his dark skin sitting at the bar raised his hand. "Guilty as charged. Was it the dive angle that gave me away?"

"It was that there was a flip, J."

J8ro laughed and conjured another drink. His gliding membranes were barely visible as gossamer shapes around his suit.

Toki reclined at the seat of honour, directly in front of the stage with something fizzy and green already hovering in front of her. The new fans shuffled into a nearby booth. "We got any idea how the Error did that jump?" she said.

"I've forwarded the logs to the Archive. Weitz is doing a mind meld with them right now," said the panda.

A column of half-melted translucent glass gave an affirmative grunt and shake. 

Business concluded, Toki turned to the new fans. They were sitting uncomfortably close in the booth. One of them had figured out the ordering system and had distributed hot chocolates.

Toki stretched out the booth to give them a bit more room. "Welcome to the fan club!" she said. "We're based out of here but once you're in the group we're linked from anywhere. These guys aren't just my groupies - they're my support team in the field!" Toki went on to introduce her modeling and physical lead, flight technique lead, tactical lead, and errors studies lead. "Most of them have been with me since my acting days. J8ro did the stunts on my first holo! I'd love to have all of you on my team as well. I'm sure there's something you can do - even if that's just spreading the word!"

Awkward introductions commenced. It turned out one of the new fans was a hovertag expert - she struck up an immediate conversation with tactics. Other split off, finding someone to talk to, or just soaking in the atmosphere, or saying a polite goodbye.

Foxtrot7 stayed behind. "You got a damn impressive crew here."

"Heck yeah we do," said Toki. "And you are?"

"Foxtrot7." He had slicked his hair back down and was looking a lot more confident than the user clinging to the ice sculpture back in Cloudsite. "I used to grind dungeons in the Heap League." He shifted into a cyber-rogue's gear and spun a dagger on his finger. "Why are Catch's best soldiers working your comms instead of next to you in the field."

Toki deferred. "Sameron makes those calls. He liked Catch as a close-knit group. He's been a public servant since before the Weft existed, far as I know."

Foxtrot7 conjured an eclair, sliced off a clean bite with the dagger, and popped it in his mouth. "I don't see why it should matter what he thinks. You're the ones killing the errors."

Toki took a long, impassive sip from her drink. It faded from green to pale pink as it lowered.

"C'mon. Just think of the group pose you could enter in."

<hr>

Xiridi drank deep of the Sensatorium's pool and began to disperse. The pool was deep and bronzed today, with a sharp sting of irritation and a long aftertaste of nostalgia. A rainstorm of azure paint flowed by a serpentine roller coaster of musical notation, spraying Xiridi with sticky acrylic. Those would be L-Giak and e183, come to the Sensatorium to find a form that could reflect their feelings. They were always here.

Xiridi let themselves dissolve and rise past the pair. More users clung to the tower's walls or hovered in its open central column. Xiridi became a pool of shadow in an acute corner and let themselves obsess. They recalled a face - off-kilter and wrinkled with glee. A layer of insouciance. They put that face into the streets of Cloudsite. A layer of trepidation. They stretched that face, recalling how the error pulled it apart. A layer of pain. A layer of pain. A layer of pain.

A helpful message disturbed Xiridi's concentration. They had reached the safe limit of shader complexity and were being cut off from the Weave. They pulled themselves together long enough to produce a simple script. The helpful message thanked them for their cooperation and burbled off to help someone else. 

Where were they. The crush of shapes inside the error, they recalled. A layer of pain. How their friend must have felt. A layer of pain. A layer of regret. A layer of pain. A layer of pain. A layer of pain...

<hr>

Toki spawned in in the sky outside the Sensatorium. The landscape was blasted, moon-like, the wrought iron tower suffused with prismatic mist the only landmark around. Sameron was in front of her. Her squad was behind her. She conjured a raised stage for her to land dramatically on, which retracted into the ground.

Her voice rang out. "Heyo! Weave alarms are telling us there's an error here. Catch is on the scene!"

No one responded.

With a blink she linked to her fans. Soft ideas trickled in from across the Weft, along with more visceral responses. She opened her eyes to see through seven views. Moving as one being, they sent three up to hover around the tower, observing, with J8ro leading. Two, led by Weitz, found a trace node on the tower and began to scan. Three, including Toki and Foxtrot7, gathered by the main entrance, hands over weapons, holding one collective breath.

Sameron walked past them. He gave the military positioning a rueful glance as he passed. 

"Good day," he said. "It's Sameron, formerly of Assert. This is probably a false alarm, but just to be safe we're going to scan the fabric and do a refresh." He turned to a nearby raincloud. "L-Giak, you're looking wonderful. Could you do me a favour and gather people up. We might have to interrupt -"

Sameron was cut off by a ribbon of flesh that pierced his side. He spun backward, carried off the ground by the force of the blow.

Toki gave the signal before Sameron even landed. She jetted into the Sensatorium, back to back with Foxtrot hovering just above the pool. With a signal to her fabric experts the layers of the Sensatorium were stripped away, leaving bare iron surfaces with crude textures. The mist cleared from the air and users abruptly ceased to be abstract shapes and became their default bodies. 

The error was visible as a mass of stretched and melting faces, all engorged hazel eyes and liquid rosy cheeks. Toki, Weitz, and fans across the Archive exchanged notes. It had waited for Sameron. It had ambushed him. That meant it had the capacity for planning. Best they could get her now was that it was expanding slowly, and that they should expect it to anticipate and react to their moves.

A flight plan flowed into the squad from J8ro. Three pairs, approaching the error from three directions. Weitz would stay back and begin the evacuation. They rose, psiblades guarding each other's flanks, with even hoversuit pressure. They counted their synchronized heartbeats. On four the error flexed and squeezed, going for an escape route. On five they struck.

Six psiblades blazed, driven forward by blasts of flame. Toki's squad narrowly avoided each other as they carved clean through the error in six clean lines. 

The pulsating flesh sprayed off behind them, splattering against the tower's beams. It stretched together, reknitting a network of eyelashes. Another round of slashes sent it bouncing to every corner of the tower's mid-level. Joyously, more slashes dissected it, a dance of violence with blobs carved off by one blow sent into the path of another. 

Weitz broke the spell, voice breaking from the collective. "I think this isn't working." 

They backed off, thinking separately again. The mass of the error had in fact grown, now eight or nine blobs each the size of the original growth. Each cut seemed to have only helped it multiply.

They backed off, escaping through the tower's lattice walls. The Sensatorium's midsection was fully engulfed in nightmarish flesh.

"Do we know what can hurt it?"

"I've got users in Archives on it right now."

"Keep us updated. Until then, search and rescue, starting with the upper levels."

Toki ascended and scanned for users. Some had already fled, shifting to simple gliding forms, and were now dotted around the barren landscape. The scan picked up five Does. The Doe was a low-poly user model of a man in a plain tunic and what Toki had always found to be an unsettling smile. Still, it was well-worn enough to be the basis for many userforms, especially those that would replace the physical body entirely. The Does up here were clearly meant to support elaborate Sensatorium layerings, put back to basics by the sudden shutdown. They twitched in shock, barely able to cling to the tower.

The squad split up the tower and searched. They emerged with Does over their shoulders in fireman's carries.

"Can I just drop them? Sense-junkies might enjoy it," said Foxtrot7.

"I wouldn't risk putting them through rejuvenation like this," said J8ro tactfully.

The search and rescue of the upper layers took two trips. By the time they returned for the second trip, the error had grown to engulf the middle third of the tower, and the top third was sinking and leaning.

The squad backed off and realigned at safe distances from the tower. The comfortable feeling of group insight bled back into Toki. Pain echoed as J8ro rejoined. Rapid questions - "How hurt are you?" - "What happened?" - blurred into a stream of common memory. The error had got him with a splaying tendril during his latest evac. His damaged psyche babbled in the collective. Gently and then forcefully, they forced him to return to his soulspace and re-centre.

Weitz jacked in. Tenuous ideas, laced with qualifiers, flowed through. Archives didn't have any breakthroughs, but maybe an amped-up pointer would do something. 

Foxtrot7 spun a pointer on a sling of light and chucked it. From six pairs of eyes they watched it arc. It detonated into a sphere of glitchy night, the raw physical reality exposed. The tower was gone within the blast radius, the error left shrivelled and hanging on nothing.

The thrill of drawing blood glowed among them.

They approached the tower from all directions, bombarding it with pointers. The Sensatorium was soon covered in silent space. The error climbed up to the tower's peak to escape the impacts, but the top of the tower collapsed into the failing floors below and into the range of more pointers.

A shape stuck out of the still-squirming flesh, vaguely humanoid. Toki asked for the bombardment to avoid that spot and jetted in. She fired her hoverjets in reverse to decelerate, clasping a hand over something that seemed foot-like.

A layer of pain.

She blinked herself back. She'd blacked out a moment and fallen a little. She thrusted herself up, summoned a lasso, and tried to get it around what looked like a midsection.

A layer of regret. A layer of pain.

She set aside the pretense of physicality and tried to heave the body out by force of will alone.

Xiridi. A layer of pain. Cloudsite. A layer of pain. A layer of pain. You have exceeded the safe limit of shader complexity. A layer of pain.

A familiar voice pulled her back. 

"Woah there!"

Sameron was pulling her to her feet. His concerned smile was an icy shower after the visceral instinct of fighting as one. 

"Can you still fight?"

She killed her hoverjets, still trying to pull her back. She could.

Sameron batted back an encroaching tendril with his psiblade. The two of them were on the ground floor of the Sensatorium, next to its pool. Above and around them, the error was coughing and baying.

"Good job on the search and rescue," he said. "If you can fight, we need to defend the pool."

Toki stood back to back with Sameron. "I don't know if we can -"

Sameron spoke over her. "Shame about the damage to the structure and the Weft here -"

She leaned over to cover his right leg, which he'd left open. "You're hurt yourself, -"

"But the pool is this place's heart. Not backed up, not duplicated." He began to lecture. "Every sense-journey begins by drawing from the pool and ends by seeding it again. So long as -"

"Sam, there's no way!" Toki turned to face him. She hooked back into the squad. "Psiblades do nothing, we're down one already, we'll need to blast this place to the ground to get out without more losses."

Sameron stood up tall. He declared, "So long as I -"

A blast of silence cut him off. Amped-up pointers erupted all around them. The error recoiled and the Sensatorium's foundations, stripped of their digital components, creaked under the load above. Flesh and eyes leaked from the flailing error and cascaded onto Toki and Sameron.

More explosions followed. Sameron was a dark shape. Toki grabbed him close. She lashed out randomly against the tide of gore. Light suddenly bled in from her left. Two figures barreled through, picking up her and Sameron with the force of their momentum and going out the other side. 

Toki looked back. Foxtrot7 was carrying her. Pointer after pointer spread night over where the Sensatorium once stood until nothing remained.

<hr>

"- and that's when Foxtrot7 - give 'em a wave, Foxy - swooped in and rescued us both! Sam and I got a little roughed up, so it might be a bit 'til my next dispatch. Seeya!"

Toki dismissed the glittering backdrop and collapsed into a plush couch. Catch's new headquarters was a swanky building with its glass walls run through with hanging plants, but it wasn't where her fans expected her to be giving dispatches from.

At least she still had a complete body to emote with, as much as it hurt right now. Sameron's torso and head stuck out from a portable rejuvenation tube.

"Thank you, Toki, that was great," he said. "And thank you for your discretion."

Toki flinched. "Discretion?"

Foxtrot7 swiped a hovering screen out of the way to side-eye Toki. While Toki had been making her broadcast, he had not been taking advantage of Catch headquarters' many seating options. He'd been pacing. He said, "Toki, what did you find?"

"I -"

"You clearly found something that you're not telling, you've been unlinked for the last hour, what is it?""

Toki stared off into space. Invitations to link minds and offers of concern hung at the edges of her vision. She ignored them.

"So," she said, "I used to know this guy named Xiridi."

Sameron scratched his chin avuncularly. "I think I recall that name. Builds novelty avatars, right?"

Toki dropped into a conversational tone. "Sounds like him. We were a comedy duo a couple thousand years ago in the Mirage circuit.""

"Oh I loved the fourth millennium Mirage circuit. In my opinion -"

Foxtrot7 stepped between them, facing Toki as he dropped into a squat. "So what happened to him?" he said.

Sameron slid his rejuvenation tube over to the side. He looked Foxtrot7 up and down. 

"Do you mind?" he said.

"She talked about him in the past tense, Sam. Toki, what happened to him."

"We were having a conversation, Foxtrot7, there's no rush."

Toki jumped in, all smiles and conciliatory hand gestures. "No, it's fine." she said. "In the error, today, I found a trace. Xiridi's trace. He was - He was trying to recreate the feeling of someone taken by the Cloudsite error as an avatar. And I think he may have -"

Foxtrot7 stood straight up and even grew a couple feet in height for emphasis. "He summoned an error!" he said. He glared at Toki, then at Sameron. "How could he - wait, doesn't Weave have a whole system set up to prevent people from doing exactly that?". The screens hovering around his face swarmed and buzzed as he spread the word. 

Sameron tilted his head and shrugged. "I'm sure people have ways of bypassing it." he said.

Foxtrot7 jammed a finger that was maybe 40% larger than normal at Sameron's incomplete torso. "And you're fine with that?"

Sameron demurred. "We try to treat people with trust here."

"Well apparently we shouldn't."

Sameron shifted himself upwards a little, bringing the newly formed next few centimetres of his torso out of the tube. He pulled his shoulders back, acclimatizing to the sensation of the sensitive new flesh. He stared off into space and allowed his accumulated world-weariness to settle over him like a shroud. "The Sensatorium was the first big case I took when I started at Assert, must have been thirty-eight hundred years ago. There was a user there causing trouble. She would show up constantly, smoke up the place with her big sad avatar. I - We gave her her own corner, adjusted the shaders so others could see. None of it worked. Eventually we just banned her."

"And exactly, that's why -" 

Sameron paused Foxtrot7 with a practised gesture. He continued, "Next day she had trashed not only the Spine but her own soulspace. She was never the same again. Foxtrot7, you're angry and I get it. I've been angry for the same reason many times. If only people would just listen, just behave. But we can't talk down to people. Can't treat them like problems to contain. If we do, we've already lost."

Foxtrot7 stared at him, and he stared back. He opened his mouth as if to shout, then thought better of it. His links, which had never calmed, flashed him information from his periphery. He turned to Toki. 

"Weave says they can do it. Won't be impossible to bypass but will be painful enough to discourage most."

Sameron tried to speak. Foxtrot7 spoke over him.

"Toki, they won't do it on just my say so, I've pinged you, can you tell them to turn it on?"

Toki sank deeper into the couch. An urgent message from Weave joined the long list of pings heavy at the back of her mind.

When she next spoke, all her usual showmanship was gone. "I - I don't know if this is what Xiridi would have wanted. They made these really incredible avatars. I wore one once, this intricate dragon with a tea garden on its back. They wouldn't want us to stop people from making things like that."

She pulsed this idea out into her network and let the responses return.

"They're working on avatar optimizations in Archives - I think big set piece avatars like that might still be possible."

"We can always make exceptions for users we trust."

"Xiridi would still be alive if we had these in place - isn't that more important?"

She let the thoughts wash over her.

Outside the headquarters' dewy windows, birds sang in unison. Sameron was saying something but she couldn't hear him.

"Okay. I'll do it," she said. "Do you want me to make an announcement?"

"That would be great, yeah," said Foxtrot.

Toki smiled in relief. She stood up. "Okay, here goes..." she said. She summoned the background she was using before, dismissed it, and summoned a different one. To the broadcast, she was standing in front of the remains of the Sensatorium. 

"Heyo! Toki here. In this dispatch I'll be talking about the way we - Assert and Weave - are handling resource-heavy spaces and avatars. We've been putting limits on how layered they can get to try to take it easy on the fabric. And it's been going great, those of you that have been optimizing or just switching to simpler models, I really appreciate it." She blew a kiss. "But also, there's been a lot of bypassing of the limits, which, no shade, we've all done stuff like that. But the error fighting has been feeling a bit dicey, to be honest, so until Sam and I are in full fighting shape and we've got a handle on our squad, we'll be chasing those limits a little harder. So if you feel something as you're building a model, just, back off, okay? Seeya!"

She closed the recording. She felt abuzz. She bounced back and forth from one foot to the other.

"How was that?" she said. "I'm worried about a second dispatch so soon after the one about the Sensatorium."

Foxtrot7 brought up the recording as a hovering figure in his hand. He scrolled back and forth through it with subtle gestures. "It'll need to wait until Weave gets the details sorted out anyways. I can launch this when the restrictions go up. You two get some rest."

He performed a mockingly strict salute and vanished.

Toki walked over to Sameron, who had positioned himself facing out the window. SHe sat on the floor beside him. 

"Sorry," she said.

Sameron looked over to her slowly, then looked back out the window.

"It's only temporary, okay," she said. "Just until we get better."

Sameron laughed. "No such thing as temporary with stuff like this. You know that."

"Yeah," said Toki.

She looked at her feet.

Sameron heaved himself out of the tube up to the knees. He summoned an antique wooden chair to sit back in. 

"You worked the Mirage Circuit?" he said.

"Oh yeah, I was a huge fan," Toki bubbled. "Dico and Deflanger. Moricori and Tim882. Those guys were great." She got herself a matching chair. "Who were your favourites?"

Sameron gestured that she was okay to sit right next to him. "There was this solo act - I think they joined up with someone later. Mije? He was great. Kind of a lumberjack-type persona."

"Oh," said Toki. She laughed darkly.

"You knew him?"

"No, yeah, that was, he was me," said Toki. "That was a cool avatar, wore it for a while."

"Wow, small world," said Sameron.

Toki looked over at Sameron with a hopeful expression.

"So, are you not mad about the Weave restrictions?"

"Oh, I'm furious," he said calmly.

"Oh," said Toki.

Sameron looked out at the Stack's clear blue sky. "But I don't think I'm changing your mind here, so no point berating you about it. We'll see where it lands."

<hr>

The Weft had never had a culture of protest, but they'd taken to it with gusto. The statues, squares, and lush skyscrapers of the Stack were under a storm. At its heart, the Tapestry, eternal record of the wWft, was occupied by chanting and roiling users. Neon slogans and caricatures of Sameron and Toki hovered against the sky. 

The real Sameron and Toki looked on from Catch headquarters. Sameron, fully rejuvenated, was sitting on the floor. Toki paced. The chatter of her fans and allies was constant over her link.

"- allowed to stop them? -"

"- bodies more complex than -"

"- taunting us -"

She tuned them out. The voices of ten thousand angry users were a rumble of thunder. 

"- Toki -"

From this angle, she could see the square of the tapestry where she'd left a record of her first mass performance. Someone was stomping on it.

"Toki!"

She snapped to. It was J8r0. "Sorry, was in recovery," she said.

"There's an error in the Stack. Big one, out near the centennial office."

"I'll be right there."

She shifted into her hoversuit and gestured to Sameron. "Try to hold it until I get there."

Sameron pulled himself to his feet and let his hoversuit settle onto him. Together they approached the window, which dissolved into open air. The sound of the protest doubled with the barrier removed.

"We're moving it," said J8r0. "Got it pretty well contained on a Southeast trajectory."

Toki paused with one foot on the windowsill. "Wait, that's towards the Tapestry."

"Yes."

"Who told you to do that?"

"Foxtrot."

"Get him on the line." A black rain started to fall. Sameron gave her a thumbs-up-thumbs-down. She signaled to pause.

"Hey Toki," said Foxtrot7. She felt the judders of combat and signal cutouts of pointers over the connection. "Little busy right now, what you up to?"

"You're leading an error towards a crowd of people."

"They're breaking the rules! The rules you signed off on. If they want to summon errors so bad, we can give them one."

Blood pounded in her ears. "That's not -  Fox, there are people I know in that crowd. There are people you know."

"There are people I thought I knew."

She stepped off the windowsill. Sameron followed close behind her. She pulled up, weaving through the towers in a northwesterly direction. Black tears streaked off her face.

"Foxtot7," she said. "I am ordering you as the ranking officer of Catch to redirect the error away from the tapestry."

The line went dead. No thoughts pulsed through her mind except her own. 

"What are we doing?" shouted Sameron over the flight noise.

"We're fighting an error."

<hr>

From the air the error was a bright red plaintive figure, as tall as the skyscrapers that fragmented and unknotted in its wake. It staggered forward trailing two wings of writhing black cables that ripped and tore the landscape. Toki's former squad was neither visible nor audible; the only sign of their efforts were the blooming of pointers, negative space herding the error onward.

Toki and Sameron dropped into the throng. Sameron engaged his jets early, hovering outside the error's reach. Toki dropped past him, psiblade drawn and behind her. She slashed at the first cable she saw. It caught her blade, but a boost of force from her hoversuit broke through it. She carried the momentum into another cable, and then another, before locking her sword in front of her and impaling the error's leg. She yanked the sword out and cut at the tough hide again and again until the corruption buzzing in her head became sickening. She backed off.

"Feeling okay?" said Sameron.

"Never better," she said. "Doesn't look like it regenerates or multiplies or anything. It's just big and tough."

"Sounds doable", said Sameron. "Shall we."

They dived in together, carving pieces out of the cabled wings and putting holes in the metallic skin. Twitching bits of error littered the glitchy ground. The error twitched at each cut but its sulky movement didn't slow or change direction. Toki had no one in her head. No one was giving her flight plans or swordplay solutions. Her own instincts, often twitchy and overeager, but feverish in action, carried her. It felt good.

"Yo, Toki, you're here?" 

It was Weitz, barging into her comms.

"Of course I'm here. What are you doing?" She did not stop fighting.

"Foxtrot said you were out of action. He said you'd delegated to him."

"Fucking liar", she spat. "And when he told you to sic an error on the Tapestry, you just went with it?"

"He said it was Weave orders."

Toki looked up and out of the melee at where she guessed Weitz was watching. "Weitz," she said, "Does that matter to you?"

There was silence on the line. She resumed her cutting.

Soon she could feel her squad dropping in around her. J8r0, last to arrive, came in with a dramatic somersault, saluted her, and took his place behind her shoulder. Sameron even joined the call. Foxtrot7 was notably absent.

She put her thoughts on broadcast. "You guided it with pointers, right? Can you guide it somewhere else?"

With one unquiet mind they hefted their pointers and prepared to throw. With unified timing they dropped them in front of the error. Their fields formed a curve guiding it off to its left.

It walked, shuddering, through the voids, keeping on its path.

"It's the crowd," said Weitz. "All those users. It's drawn to them."

For the first time in a while Toki turned around. The running fight had carried them across half the Stack and the Tapestry was now only a few blocks away. 

"Keep it busy," she said. "All of you, together. I need to get people out of its way."

The storm of the protest had become a collective act of avatar-making. A few users stood on the Tapestry, guiding neon slogans through the air like kites on strings, but most had contributed themselves to the swirling black cloud, drawing frustration from the storm, mixing it with their own, and projecting it out as needle-sharp rain. The windows of Catch headquarters were all broken.

Toki landed on a convenient plinth and amplified her voice. 

"Heyo!" she shouted. The clouds boomed back. "Toki here! We got an error coming close that we're having trouble slowing down, so if you could -"

A smouldering arm of storm rushed over her, throwing her back with its wind and water. She righted herself. SHe tried to explain but thunder washed out her voice whenever she opened her mouth. 

Over her head lightning arced from the protest to the error, chipping off bits with every strike.

Toki tried in vain to communicate a few more times before giving the thunderstorm a meek thumbs up and returning to her squad.

The error was at the edge of the Tapestry now. The Tapestry was a park whose ground was a quilt of thousands of irregular patches. In each one was recorded, woven or painted or holographically enmeshed, a scene important to some user. The threads holding it together, Weave's toughest, tugged, resisted, and with screaming effort gave under the error's influence. Patches tore from each other and fizzled into meaningless noise as black cables pierced them. 

With Toki's entire squad fighting it, the error was moving slower. Its right wing was threadbare and dragged behind it, while J8r0 was entangled in its left. Beneath the tapestry were bare steel girders with vast gaps between them. Weitz was back-walking along one of them, throwing out pointers and directions. 

A wave of understanding flowed out from Sameron into the group. In a few steps the error would lay foot on a weak part of the tapestry with no girder beneath it. They backed off a moment, goading it slightly to the right. Then, they acted as one. J8r0 yanked the wing to the side as Toki jammed her sword into its leg and wrenched downwards. The error crumpled forwards, wiping a hundred patches of the tapestry into ashen noise.

Sameron was there to meet it. Around him the cloud had pearled off into recognizable users. 

"Sam, why didn't you keep these maniacs under control"

"Sam, this power really went to your head"

He didn't respond. He levelled his psiblade. As the error's head landed, he jetted forward. Inside the error's scowling mouth, he slashed in all directions. It screeched, twisted, and fell silent.

A tide of tragedy, now all too familiar, swept over Toki and her allies.

The error, head now a tangled mess, pulled itself still, hand over hand, into the Tapestry.

Toki launched herself into its path. Most of the Tapestry was by now unraveled. A trail of red sky overhead showed the error's path. The error's core was visible through the carnage. She dropped with her blade held firm in front of her. 

A pointer bloomed, causing the error to flinch and roll out of her way. Toki pulled up and halted her movement, landing hard on a shaky metal beam. In front of her was a user holding a pointer.

"Punishment's not done yet," said Foxtrot7. 

Toki's jets pulled her to her feet.

"These idiots -" he gestured all around himself "- would break the Weft so they can have their fun and games. And you'd let them. You and Sameron and the whole stack. So I'm done listening to you. I'll save the Weft if no one else will."

The steel beneath them creaked, dropped a meter, then screeched to a stop.

"You're right," said Toki. She walked towards him without looking at him.

"I also shouldn't have listened."

With a single motion she drew her psiblade and ran him through. He howled and scrabbled at her. She lifted him off the ground by the blade, reared it back, and hurled him into the error's maelstrom.

He screamed and threw pointers as he died.

She tried to start her hoverjets but the left-side ones fizzled and glitched. She leapt onto the error's shoulder, near where its wing had been severed. It didn't react, continuing to claw its way through the Tapestry. She ran across its crystalline skin. With each step her body splayed out into loose geometry. She summoned another psiblade and drew it as she leapt into the error's core.

<hr>

"Heyo! Toki here. Sorry if this is a bit delayed."

Static.

"I'm leaving Catch. Actually, you won't see me for a while in general."

More static. A subtle adjustment gets the recording back.

"To my fans, sorry again. You guys are great - keep fighting. Actually, that goes for everyone."

"We can survive this but we'll have to fight. Do it the way you are and do it for someone you care about."

"But not me, probably, cause I'll be gone for a while. Don't know if I'll come back. Decided I want to do some fighting on my own."

"Seeya!"
