Weft Trace 01: The Record Chaser

Xeia was seven hundredths ahead of her personal best going into the third sector. She pulled into the long, shallow curve ahead, low on all fours. She dug the wheeled blades on her feet into the tiles in a few pushing strides, then settling them straight behind her and letting the motors do the work. She was picking up speed. 

She leaned gently into the turn, leading with the matching wheels attached to her forearms. The Grip’s oxygen-rich air whipped by her. The joints in the tiles jostled her bones. She could feel it in her teeth. She cut within centimeters of the turn’s inside corner as it transitioned into the next sector. Nine hundredths ahead now.

Ahead, the track banked up into a long, curved wallride section made of transparent plastic. Xeia took the ramp into it, coasting on the near-vertical surface, held up by the wall’s curve and her own speed. The Grip stretched out below her, a tangle of arenas, tracks, and stunt parks. Her motors squealed, threatening to lose traction. She shifted down a gear and angled them up, giving them more bite. 

On the other side of this clean plastic wall was a rock-climbing course. A man with holographic green hair was going for an acrobatic jump, carrying momentum to swing from one leap into the next. The Downlink connected them as they flew past. Wordless props flowed between them. She didn’t need to look back to know he made the jump.

As the wallride flattened out again, Xeia watched for a pattern on the track’s faux-sand texture. The area was darkened by skid marks from her past attempts, but she wouldn’t be able to rely on those in the race. She lifted her arm blades and slammed them back into the track at a harsh angle. Her armblades whipped to the side, redirected in an instant and carrying her with them. She pushed off with her coiled legs for a final boost. 

She sailed through empty space. She could feel her wonder reflected in the Downlink, echoing through the whole Weft, felt as a faint glimmer of adrenaline by a hundred thousand minds, and coming back to her. They were pretty sure she’d land it. 

She did. She cut off the feeling of collective relief coming in, disconnecting from the Downlink drifting into the final downhill. The landing wasn’t fully clean, only three hundredths ahead now. She eyed the spot for an early jump on the last corner. Her high-bite blades, built for turning, not speed, hummed a rising drone. She leaned down, bringing her arms close together in front of her to slice through the air. She could hear her own heartbeat. She went for it.

Xeia sailed through the air alone. The far surface of the curve crept up in her vision.

Xeia instinctively braced her arm blades in front of her, moments before she hit the ledge. She fell, gathering speed through the open air. She reset her splits; another failed run on the day. Stretching her arms to both sides slowed the spin. The ground rushed up to meet her.

A quarter-pipe, bare grey untextured surface, popped into existence in her way. She braced herself and hit it hard, sprawling down the ramp and onto solid, flat ground. She reactivated her Downlink connection, letting her pain dissipate through the network. She opened her eyes and saw a woman leaning over her.

Her bulky, toned muscles were visible beneath her dark red tracksuit. Both this and her sleek, geometric helmet were traced by white lines of light. Similar braided cords of light spilled from the helmet’s back.

Xeia pulled herself back up to her feet, despawning her blades. 

“I could have caught myself”, she said. She took the woman’s outstretched hand and used it to haul herself onto her feet. 

“Sure you could.” A stabbing pain in Xeia’s side made her stagger to the side. The bigger woman caught her. “You should get yourself to a reju-tube.”


“No shit”, said Xeia. She shifted out of her lanky, light racing body and into something more suited to walking. Torn ligaments and muscles returned to data, but the ache of wrenching forces still ingered. 

“There’s a couple tubes at A9, I can walk you there. I was going there anyways”, she said. She gestured to the track with the arm that wasn’t holding Xeia up. “Heck of a pace you were on. Training for the season closer?” 

Xeia nodded. 

	“Saw you on the track last race, but didn’t get you on the Downlink”, she said. “Name’s Queenside Knight, or you can call me Q. Got a team going, we’re sharing strats. You should join.” An invite flickered into Xeia’s vision.

She dismissed it. She paused on the edge of A9 skate park, pushing herself off Queenside’s shoulder and finding her balance in the unfamiliar posture of standing.

“You got a private link you’re on?”

	“Nope. It’s a challenge I’m doing. Best possible season placement with no Downlink connection.” Xeia lowered herself down the steps one at a time. Skaters weaved around her.

	“Hadn’t heard of this one. Is it new this season?”

	“Not a public thing.” Two person-sized tubes of transparent, viscous liquid stood side-by-side as the park’s central obstacle. “Just something for myself.”

Xeia grabbed the outside handle and heaved herself into the rejuvenation pod. The cool gel conformed around her body. She leaned her head back and let herself float. The system worked from the legs up, leaving her briefly with the alien sensation of having no legs at all. When they returned, they were tender. They jolted with electricity as she moved them again. 

Queenside was talking to her, leaning against her tube.

“- crazy thing to do, Downlink’s such a big part of this league, especially with the fan work. You in on this?”

Xeia bobbed.

	“Bunch of people in the stands running sims, finding the optimal lines. Live during the race, just going off whatever the leader’s uploading. Total game-changer. Got us the last three side events. I don’t offer spots to just anyone.”

Xeia relaxed her shoulders, feeling them dissolve into points of light and restitch from the bottom up. A skater did a kickflip off the tube’s glass. Through the gel it felt like a rumbling wave. She was feeling well enough to speak a few words at Queenside before her head became light.

	“Not interested, Q”

Xeia cricked her neck back and forth a few times, feeling out her sore muscles. The pod door opened and she dismounted.

Queenside stood in front of her. “You’re a good racer, Xeia”, she said. “I don’t know why you’re handicapping yourself. You’d have a shot at the win - heck, winning the whole season - if you’d let it go.”

“What makes you so sure your way is better?”

Queenside scoffed. “You’re kidding me. I’ve got a server with five champion fourblade runners figuring this out and you think you can do better on your own.” Queenside produced a baton of light. Characters scrolled along its side.

	“Here. It’s a pseudonymous uplink. My team’s using it to connect during races. In case you change your mind.”

	Xeia stared at it for a moment, before snatching it out of Queenside’s hand and stashing it in a pocket. She scowled, turned, and summoned a hoverboard under her feet. She tuned down her audio input before Queenside could respond. The hoverboard lifted off, carrying her out into empty Grip space. She pulled a Downlink ID she hadn’t used in a while to the front of her memory and made a call.

<hr>

Xeia left the Spine at 3A8 and walked into the buffer. This entrance passed through a humid greenhouse; daemons in the form of holographic butterflies flocked around her as she passed. It opened up onto a cobbled street lit in greens and blues by a perpetual sunset. Idle chatter and wine was on the air. Xeia was dressed for the region, taller than her racing form in a turquoise dress that flared out into a skirt of living leaves. At the edge of town, over the buildings, she could see the Skyline Café, her destination. It was a ferris wheel outlined in spindly silver filigree, carrying cars like mismatched teacups.

When Xeia left the lift to the cab with a single table for two, Airiva was already there. She stashed the holographic mannequin suspended in the air in front of her, stood, and greeted Xeia with a hug.

	“Xeia! It’s been an age since I last saw you.” Standing, Airiva was even taller than Xeia. Her daring purple dress exposed the diagonal cross-sections of her torso, arms, and legs that were made of deep blue translucent crystal.

	“It’s been a while since you’ve been on the track.” Xeia took her seat.

Airiva leaned back in hers. Her outfit shifted into her old racing stripes. “Good times”, she said. She shifted back into the dress. “I must admit I was surprised to receive your call. What is this about?”


	Xeia perused the menu inset into the porcelain table. “I can’t just call up an old friend for a nice meal?” 


	“No. No you can’t.” Airiva swiped in her selections. The menus receded into the table. ”If you’re here, Xeia, you want something. And if it’s me in particular you want, it must have something to do with fourblade racing. Let me guess, you want me back on the track?”

	A plate of palm-sized crackers shaped like snowflakes with accompanying lemon and rosemary dips phased up through the table. “Maybe. You got anything more urgent you’re doing?”

Airiva beamed. “I’m working on a whole line of avatars and avatar accessories, based around an oceanic theme. Some cutting-edge work with boids algorithms” She leaned forward, positioning her face in front of Xeia’s. “Let me show you.”

Airiva’s body became a swarm of flat, metallic, fish-shaped creatures. They expanded out from her body, then settled into a flowing swarm. Despite the constant movement, her wry smile and high cheekbones were clearly recognizeable. Her dress became a frothy waterfall, cascading down her body like a sash.

There was a soft ding, giving Xeia a reason to stop staring. A chef in an impeccable tuxedo appeared at the edge of the room, holding in his hand a glass dome containing a swirling lavender-tinted mist.

“Is there a prize you’re gunning for with that look?” Xeia waved a cracker in Airiva’s general direction. Air whistled through the gaps in the snowflake pattern in a harmonious chime.

“A grip kid at heart. No, there’s no prize, but any artist wants to see their work appreciated. The Mirage Exposition is coming up, and it’s a show which often shapes trends for the next season.”

The chef lifted the cloche, allowing the mist to spill off the table and fill the air in a fragrant marbled display of shapes of purple, revealing two fillets of fish on a black plate. They both applauded appropriately.

Airiva drew a pair of wine glasses out of the table’s surface and passed one to Xeia. “So, not urgent per se, but I’m happy in the buffer for the time being.” 

“Oh, you wouldn’t need to leave the buffer.”

Airiva raised a crystalline eyebrow.

“I’ll need you on wheels just once, for a few minutes, on a night a few days from now.” Xeia poured a golden sauce onto her fish from a porcelain dish. It sizzled and cracked as it landed.

Airiva leaned back in her chair, gazing into the dissipating fog. “I have a counter-offer”, she said.

	“I’m listening”

“I join another of your harebrained schemes…” Airiva paused to take a sip of wine “... and in exchange, you model for me at the Mirage Exposition. I think my work could benefit from an athlete’s poise.”

Xeia took another mouthful of fish. She put one elbow on the table and rested her chin on her hand for a moment. “Deal.”

“Are we finally done with business, then?” said Airiva. She hovered her palm over the cab’s do-not-disturb interface.

“Sounds like we are.”

The cab’s glass roof shimmered into an opaque pearl.

<hr>

The track had been fitted with a podium and finish line for the day. Flocks of people stood on personal hovering glass platforms, crowding around the racetrack. The Grip’s normally bright sunlight had been dimmed for the event, allowing the neon signs on arenas and restaurants to illuminate passersby in saturated colour. The racers were lined up, hands down and feet to their starting blocks. Xeia flicked a switch by her ear, deafening the anticipation running through her body as she completely disconnected from the Downlink.

	She felt the starting countdown as a bass shudder through the track. Three, two, one. The starting blocks exploded into colour, propelling the racers forward. Xeia lowered her body a hand’s breadth from the track to avoid getting airtime. She pushed down into the track. She could hear the clatter of another set of wheels just to her right. 

	She was following her practiced route. A straightaway; her motors whined and the racer in front of her drifted away from her. A corner; she sprayed up sparks, taking a sharper line that bought her the space back again. 
	
	Queenside Knight was in the lead, her light-fibre hair whipping to the side with every turn. The track evened out into a shallow curve. Xeia could see Queenside pull her limbs in tight, putting one arm in front of the other. With her four blades in a straight line, she barely cleared a tight wall on her left and then her right. That was new. 

Xeia took the turn as she was used to, weaving through the flow of competitors following Queenside’s line. At least two must have passed her there.

	She was middle of the pack coming into the wallride. The climbing wall on the outside of the transparent tiles had been replaced with stadium seating. Spectators popped in as the racers arrived. Their cheering was tinny and soft against the roaring wind in Xeia’s ears.

She aimed for the familiar line. Timing her breath, she slammed her arms down into the drift, nearly clipping the arms of the racer behind her as she snapped sharply to the side, off the side of the track and into empty air. No one followed her. The crowd parted around her like a school of fish. She landed clean with nothing but open track in front of her.

	When she dropped into the final sector, she could hear another drop briefly behind. Maybe half a second gap. She pushed off with a foot, then settled into a sleek figure to pick up speed. She felt a ridge in the track in her bones, followed by another clack. Three tenths now.

<hr>

Queenside Knight was impressed. The cut on the wallride exit wasn’t a new idea, but with all the downsides of high-grip on this track she’d never seriously considered it. The whir of her wheels tuned up in pitch. She was gaining on Xeia, each slaloming turn bringing her closer to the sparks off her foot-blades. 

Ten-odd uplinks rested at the back of her mind. Each turn was followed by a cascade of similar sensations from the racers following her. Together they locked in their technique, gaining speed in the downhill. Just one-tenth now.

She could feel a new uplink, leading her movements instead of lagging them. She pulled in to the front. She recognized the ID and smiled. The uplink had Xeia’s signature heavy, industrial armblades, and it was digging into the track, clawing its way forward. Queenside settled in, ready to make her move on the final jump. 

The link cut a daring line, early off the bank to take a long jump, cutting the corner. Queenside followed, deep in the zone. 

Wait a minute. 

That line was tighter than any she’d run in practice. The track pulled out to her side as she sailed uncontrollably through the air. The arms in the pseudonymous uplink lost their blades and became long and jewel-tinted, diving forward into a sunset-hued pool of water somewhere far away. 

<hr>

Xeia didn’t look back as she heard the crash sirens behind her. Airiva had made good on her promise. She put the thought of time on the red carpet behind her. It would be fun, in its own way. She took the safest jump of her life coming into the final turn. She permitted herself to look up as the finish line approached, soaking in the applause.

A scream of liquid noise consumed Xeia’s vision. The track, the finish line, the stands, all dissolved into a glitchy mass of red distortion. Her bones rattled and her blood yelled. She fell through the chaos, bracing for a ground she could not see. 

She clicked her Downlink back on, unable to see her own arm but moving on instinct. Static poured over the connection. A burst of sound sent her into a spin. She couldn’t tell if her eyes were open or closed. Pain, realer than anything, blossomed into the back of her skull.

	Everything went grey.
