Weft Trace 05: The Trace Talker

Scene 1: 
Ys wakes up next to Bravo in his own soulspace. They talk, they wish they had longer, but they both have work to get to. 
Establish: 
This is Ys's soulspace, a reflection of his self
He can affect himself by changing it and his thoughts change it back
This is an unusual thing to do
Bravo and Ys are a pair, and they love each other
Ys is the organized, practical one
Bravo's job is social, difficult, and fun, and he's on the verge of a breakthrough
Order of Operations:

Not for the first time, Ys regretted fitting his soulspace with circadian lighting. He had always been a stickler for the old 24-hour cycle. Before the crisis, this had made him something of an outlier. Less so these days. Time was now of the essence and so even those who would once tinker with a puzzle for centuries were now counting the days.

<describe the soulspace physically>

He was lying on a bed of stars. The mattress was invisible except for the regularly spaced points of light embedded within, pushed from their grid by his weight and by the weight of his husband Bravo. Those lights were twinkling brighter, gently coaxing him awake as he had programmed them. He allowed himself another few moments glancing into Bravo's peaceful smile. 

<ys and bravo, physically>

Contented streaks of light reached across the sky. He let his thoughts shape the space. The bed descended through unfolding shelves and servers, sliding easily to a halt next to a hovering cube of light. 

Ys reached into the cube and adjusted his alertness. Excitement and determination followed. The inlaid lighting in the shelf they were hovering beside glowed a sunrise orange. He backed it off just slightly, happy with the change to his mood.

Bravo rolled onto his side and mumbled something. Ys kissed him on the cheek. 

"It's 0730, <pet name>," he said.  

Bravo stretched like a cat. "Morning, <pet name>." He sat up and leaned his head on Ys's shoulder.

"Sleep well?"

"Yeah, just give me a moment."

Most people never entered their own soulspace, much less let others into it, so most people couldn't adjust their mood whenever they needed. Ys had learned to give most people some time.

"Okay, I'm up." Bravo closed his eyes and loaded into an avatar more suitable for walking around in public. <physical description>. 

Ys admired the process. "Going in early?" he asked. Bravo's work didn't begin until 0800 and the soulspace exit spawned right near the <laboratory of error-proof infrastructure>. 

Bravo nodded, eyes still closed, as he finished off his outfit with <cute detail>. 

"We've nearly gotten the thing working." He stood, ready to dive off the bed. He faked a jump, instead falling back to wrap around Ys and pepper him with kisses. "Besides, looks like you've got work lined up too." With that, he rolled off the back of the bed and fell gracefully out of Ys's soulspace.

Scene 2:
Ys enters the trace that landed while he was resting. There's a request from a close friend to recover a shared key. Ys finds it, but also finds that this guy secretly hated his friend
Establish:
Ys's job and specialty is investigating the traces of dead users
Death in the Weft has one source these days, and that's errors
Errors leave a trace - the remnants of a soulspace - broken and corrupted
Ys is very good at what he does

Ys landed the bed, made himself proper, and checked his messages. Long past were the days when he got a call any time a user died. The name on the file said "Vinvin". Judging by the number of requests popping into existence around his head she must have been popular, or at least useful. Ys turned a corner as he read, grabbing a ladder with one hand, still reading.

The ladder lifted with a gentle click and whizzed down the shelves in search of a clear spot to put Vinvin's trace. Ys skimmed the heartfelt obituaries. Beloved community member of a Buffer town called Orchid line. Some charming floating garden island. Primary developer of the eponymous orchids. Various plant-engineering-related awards. Died heroically defending the town from a flying error. They needed his plans for next year's flowers. Fair enough.

The ladder clicked to a halt. In front of Ys, between two vast shelves, was an empty space. With a miniscule gesture Ys allowed Vinvin's damaged mind into his own. 

Some users's minds were abstract. Some were surprising. But most users had settled into some kind of routine in the last 6000 years, and their traces, the remains of their unkempt soulspaces, tended to reflect that. It seemed that Vinvin didn't leave home all that often. Her trace hovered in Ys's metal library, miniaturized like a model train set. It was in the shape of the garden island of Orchid Line, distorted and expanded but recognizeable with its pastel houses and dangling flowering vines. Gashes of inky feathers, still quivering and creeping, split the trace and leaked dark liquid into the void. Ys checked the messages again. That wasn't in the real version of Orchid Line.

Users only died for one reason. When the errors annihilated a body they didn't leave the trace untouched.

Ys clipped a line to a nearby bolt and rapelled down into Vinvin's trace. The feathery corruption fluttered at his presence but did not pursue him. Hw swung out and landed on the main island. A delicate flower hovered over an ornate plinth at the town's entrance, turning itself inside out to continually reveal new colours. To a first approximation, it probably represented Vinvin's appreciation of beauty. 

Ys walked along the island's main street. It was silent but for the whispering creep of the corruption slowly eating the space. he stopped in front of a house rendered in greater detail than its neightbours. A tendril of darkness blocked the door. He conjured a metallic blue chain and wrapped one end around the corruption. The other end he sent flying, piercing the remembered sky to anchor itself in the shelves of his library. With the damage contained for the moment he looked over the house forensically. A friend, or perhaps lover. Hadn't spoken to them recently. Some bitterness in the way the house's door loomed and bent.

He walked away. 

As he approached a greenhouse at the town's edge, it grew in stature until it towered over him. Foliage in deep green and vibrant yellows was pressed up to the glass on every side. The door was locked. 

-he can bypass the lock easily
-he finds the pans for next year's plants
-he also learns how much Vinvin hated his job
-show, don't tell. It's okay if it isn't perfectly clear; Ys will explain what it means in a scene. 

Scene 3:
Ys meets with the close friend at a meeting-place in the Archives. He hands over the key, but can't restrain himself from saying what he learned.
Establish: 
Ys is not possessed of Bravo's social graces and tends to put his foot in his mouth.
The Archives have been turned fully to the war effort, resulting in cutbacks, stress, and surveillance. Paranoia is in the air, even more so than the rest of the Weft.
Y's work is in-demand and solitary; he talks to few people besides clients and Bravo.

Scene 4:
Ys returns to his soulspace. There's a new trace here, and it's Bravo's. Attached, is deep condolences, and an urgent request.
Establish:
Ys is emotionally stunted and immerses himself in his work
He drifted in the Weft for a while before Bravo found him
He was a master puzzlesmith - and Bravo a team solver - before the crisis
Parts of Bravo's soulspace can be brought into his, and he does. Normally he doesn't do that.

Scene 5:
Ys meets with Bravo's team. They try to console him, but can't. He tries to resume Bravo's work, but can't. He leaves quickly and promises to help.
Establish: 
C is another soulwalker. She helped teach Ys, and knows him better than most.
Bravo's work required a certain instinct that no one else could match
Ys is going through it and reacting in all the wrong ways

Scene 6:
Ys is in Bravo's soulspace again. He's put his normal queue on hold. He tries to learn from Bravo's memories, but gets lost in a memory of them together. He makes the first swap.
Establish:
Swaps can be made, and they immediately affect who Ys is
Swaps are bad for the fabric of the soulspace, and undoing them especially is fragile business
Bravo loved Ys so much